# TanStack Router

[TanStack Router](https://tanstack.com/router/latest) library provides two ways to add routing into project - **File-based** routing and **Code-based** routing.
Because of performance on user side and usage comfortability for developer experience, we chose File-based routing.

# Developer experience

-   Automatically creates needed configurations into [routeTree.gen.ts](../routeTree.gen.ts)
-   Provides typesafety.
-   Make us able to customize pages (404, Eror..), make actions before content load and even before loader itself.
-   Nesting routes is easy.
-   Reading search params or creating querry is simple and customaizable.

# What is added?

-   [\_\_root.tsx](./__root.tsx) - to create root route, where all other routes will be handeled.
-   [routeTree.gen.ts](../routeTree.gen.ts) - file provided and generated by TanStack.
-   [index.tsx](./index.tsx) - as in almost all routers, its starter page route name.
-   [not-found.tsx](../not-found.tsx) - component which shows 404 error page; which is called inside the first layer of router.

# Developer usage after already configured router

There are two ways to add new route:

1. Create file (_filename_.tsx) - the _filename_ is the same as route path name in the URL
2. Create _folder_, and create file (index.tsx) inside the _folder_ - the _folder_ name is the as route path name in the URL

After adding files/folders, TanStack automatically generates the shape of the route:

```ts
import { createFileRoute } from "@tanstack/react-router";

export const Route = createFileRoute("/filename")({
    component: TheComponent,
});
```

You just have to add component next to the "component" field - either import or write in line.

_This is the way to create static or nested static route. As needed, dynamic routes, search params or creating query, the simpler guide will be provided._
